_assignments/01-critical-response.md, before:

---
title: Critical Response Papers
date: Spring 2015
pdf: 01-critical-response.pdf
---

# Instructions

You will turn in three critical response papers over the course of the semester.  Each paper will be no more than four pages long.[^page-lengths]  You will turn in one paper in each of these windows:

  1. January 13 to February 10
  2. February 12 to March 17
  3. March 19 to April 14

Each paper will consist of a critical assessment of one of the course readings (required or supplemental).  Your paper must be turned in within a week of the reading it responds to.  For example, if your first response paper addresses a reading from the week of January 27--29, the latest it can be turned in is Thursday, February 5.

[^page-lengths]: Page lengths quoted assume a double-spaced document with 12-point text and 1-inch margins.  I reserve the right not to read any content past four pages and to reduce your grade for exceeding the page limit.

A critical response paper makes an argument.  It is not a summary---in fact, it should be written under the assumption that the reader is familiar with the work it is responding to.  To be "critical" of a work does not mean to be "against" it, but rather to reflect on it in a well-informed, objective way.  Your criticisms must be grounded in reason and evidence, not personal taste.

Here are some examples of the kind of argument a critical response paper might make.  This is not an exhaustive list; criticism can take many forms.

* For theoretical readings:

    * Using historical evidence to evaluate the plausibility of one of its assumptions

    * Proposing an important factor that the theory neglects and showing how that would change its conclusions

    * Characterizing an additional implication of the theory that the author does not discuss

* For historical readings:

    * Pursuing an alternative interpretation of the evidence the paper presents

    * Evaluating how the case fits (or fails to fit) a particular theoretical model

    * Arguing, based on a theoretical model, for how the case would have played out differently if some factor had been different

I will focus on the *clarity* and *quality* of the argument when grading a paper.  I recommend George Orwell's "Politics and the English Language" (<http://tinyurl.com/orwell46>) as a guide to clear writing.

Commit message:

Clarify late policy for CRPs

_assignments/01-critical-response.md, after:

---
title: Critical Response Papers
date: Spring 2015
pdf: 01-critical-response.pdf
---

# Instructions

You will turn in three critical response papers over the course of the semester.  Each paper will be no more than four pages long.[^page-lengths]  You will turn in one paper in each of these windows:

  1. January 13 to February 10
  2. February 12 to March 17
  3. March 19 to April 14

Each paper will consist of a critical assessment of one of the course readings (required or supplemental).  Your paper must be turned in within a week of the reading it responds to.  For example, if your first response paper addresses a reading from the week of January 27--29, the latest it can be turned in is Thursday, February 5.

[^page-lengths]: Page lengths quoted assume a double-spaced document with 12-point text and 1-inch margins.  I reserve the right not to read any content past four pages and to reduce your grade for exceeding the page limit.

**Clarification:** Late papers will not be accepted (and thus will receive a grade of zero) unless you have documentation of a medical or family emergency.

A critical response paper makes an argument.  It is not a summary---in fact, it should be written under the assumption that the reader is familiar with the work it is responding to.  To be "critical" of a work does not mean to be "against" it, but rather to reflect on it in a well-informed, objective way.  Your criticisms must be grounded in reason and evidence, not personal taste.

Here are some examples of the kind of argument a critical response paper might make.  This is not an exhaustive list; criticism can take many forms.

* For theoretical readings:

    * Using historical evidence to evaluate the plausibility of one of its assumptions

    * Proposing an important factor that the theory neglects and showing how that would change its conclusions

    * Characterizing an additional implication of the theory that the author does not discuss

* For historical readings:

    * Pursuing an alternative interpretation of the evidence the paper presents

    * Evaluating how the case fits (or fails to fit) a particular theoretical model

    * Arguing, based on a theoretical model, for how the case would have played out differently if some factor had been different

I will focus on the *clarity* and *quality* of the argument when grading a paper.  I recommend George Orwell's "Politics and the English Language" (<http://tinyurl.com/orwell46>) as a guide to clear writing.
